Unit testing data types (#5014)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-properties/data-types.md

           geography_field: POINT(-122.35 37.55)
           object_field: {'Alberta':'Edmonton','Manitoba':'Winnipeg'}
           str_array_field: ['a','b','c']
           int_array_field: [1, 2, 3]

```

## BigQuery data types

```yml

unit_tests:
  - name: test_my_data_types
    model: fct_data_types
    given:
      - input: ref('stg_data_types')
        rows:
         - int_field: 1
           float_field: 2.0
           str_field: my_string
           str_escaped_field: "my,cool'string"
           date_field: 2020-01-02
           timestamp_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           timestamptz_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           bigint_field: 1
           geography_field: 'st_geogpoint(75, 45)'
           json_field: {"name": "Cooper", "forname": "Alice"}
           str_array_field: ['a','b','c']
           int_array_field: [1, 2, 3]
           date_array_field: ['2020-01-01']
           struct_field: 'struct("Isha" as name, 22 as age)'
           struct_of_struct_field: 'struct(struct(1 as id, "blue" as color) as my_struct)'
           struct_array_field: ['struct(st_geogpoint(75, 45) as my_point)', 'struct(st_geogpoint(75, 35) as my_point)']

> 		...

Author: ```suggestion

```

---
title: "Platform-specific data types"
sidebar_label: "Data types"
---

Unit tests are designed to test for the expected _values_, not for the data types themselves. dbt takes the value you provide and attempts to cast it to the data type as inferred from the input and output models. 

How you specify input and expected values in your unit test YML definitions are largely consistent across data warehouses, with some variation for more complex data types.

## Snowflake data types

```yml

unit_tests:
  - name: test_my_data_types
    model: fct_data_types
    given:
      - input: ref('stg_data_types')
        rows:
         - int_field: 1
           float_field: 2.0
           str_field: my_string
           str_escaped_field: "my,cool'string"
           date_field: 2020-01-02
           timestamp_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           timestamptz_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           number_field: 3
           variant_field: 3
           geometry_field: POINT(1820.12 890.56)
           geography_field: POINT(-122.35 37.55)
           object_field: {'Alberta':'Edmonton','Manitoba':'Winnipeg'}
           str_array_field: ['a','b','c']
           int_array_field: [1, 2, 3]

> 		...

Author: ```suggestion

```

---
title: "Platform-specific data types"
sidebar_label: "Data types"
---

Unit tests are designed to test for the expected _values_, not for the data types themselves. dbt takes the value you provide and attempts to cast it to the data type as inferred from the input and output models. 

> How you specify input and expected values in your unit test YML definitions are largely consistent across data warehouses, with some variation for more complex data types.

Author: ```suggestion
How you specify input and expected values in your unit test YML definitions are largely consistent across data warehouses, with some variation for more complex data types. The following are platform-specific data types:
```

> How you specify input and expected values in your unit test YML definitions are largely consistent across data warehouses, with some variation for more complex data types. The following are platform-specific data types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How you specify input and expected values in your unit test YAML definitions are largely consistent across data warehouses, with some variation for more complex data types. The following are platform-specific data types:
```

           date_field: 2020-01-02
           timestamp_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           timestamptz_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           bigint_field: 1
           geography_field: 'st_geogpoint(75, 45)'
           json_field: {"name": "Cooper", "forname": "Alice"}
           str_array_field: ['a','b','c']
           int_array_field: [1, 2, 3]
           date_array_field: ['2020-01-01']
           struct_field: 'struct("Isha" as name, 22 as age)'
           struct_of_struct_field: 'struct(struct(1 as id, "blue" as color) as my_struct)'
           struct_array_field: ['struct(st_geogpoint(75, 45) as my_point)', 'struct(st_geogpoint(75, 35) as my_point)']

```

</div>

<div warehouse="Redshift">

```yml

unit_tests:
  - name: test_my_data_types
    model: fct_data_types
    given:
      - input: ref('stg_data_types')
        rows:
         - int_field: 1
           float_field: 2.0
           str_field: my_string
           str_escaped_field: "my,cool'string"
           date_field: 2020-01-02
           timestamp_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           timestamptz_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           json_field: '{"bar": "baz", "balance": 7.77, "active": false}'

```

> Note that `array` is not supported at this time.

Author: ```suggestion
Currently, the `array` is not supported.
```

```yml

unit_tests:
  - name: test_my_data_types
    model: fct_data_types
    given:
      - input: ref('stg_data_types')
        rows:
         - int_field: 1
           float_field: 2.0
           str_field: my_string
           str_escaped_field: "my,cool'string"
           bool_field: true
           date_field: 2020-01-02
           timestamp_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           timestamptz_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           int_array_field: 'array(1, 2, 3)'
           map_field: 'map("10", "t", "15", "f", "20", NULL)'
           named_struct_field: 'named_struct("a", 1, "b", 2, "c", 3)'

```
</div>

<div warehouse="Postgres">

```yml

unit_tests:
  - name: test_my_data_types
    model: fct_data_types
    given:
      - input: ref('stg_data_types')
        rows:
         - int_field: 1
           float_field: 2.0
           numeric_field: 1
           str_field: my_string
           str_escaped_field: "my,cool'string"
           bool_field: true
           date_field: 2020-01-02
           timestamp_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           timestamptz_field: 2013-11-03 00:00:00-0
           json_field: '{"bar": "baz", "balance": 7.77, "active": false}'

```

> Note that `array` is not supported at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the `array` key is not supported at this time.
```

> Note that `array` is not supported at this time.

Author: ```suggestion
Currently, the `array` key is not supported.
```
